# Salifort Motors Workforce Turnover Analysis

### Background of the Salifort Motors Scenario

#### About the company

Salifort Motors is a fictional French-based alternative energy vehicle manufacturer. Its over 100,000 employees research, design, construct, validate, and distribute electric, solar, algae, and hydrogen-based vehicles. Salifort’s end-to-end vertical integration model has made it a global leader at the intersection of alternative energy and automobiles.

As a data specialist working for Salifort Motors, you have received the results of a recent employee survey. The senior leadership team has tasked you with analyzing the data to develop ideas for increasing employee retention. To help with this, they would like you to design a model that predicts whether an employee will leave the company based on their department, number of projects, average monthly hours, and any other data points you deem helpful.

**Click [here](https://github.com/ananda-ramiah/Salifort-Motors-Workforce-Turnover-Analysis/blob/main/Activity_%20Course%207%20Salifort%20Motors%20project%20lab.ipynb) to view the capstone project, which includes detailed explanations for each step.**

### Project Overview

This project aimed to create a predictive model through multiple logistic regression or machine learning algorithms such as Decision Tree, Random Forest, or eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost). This project utilized employee statistics recorded by Salifort Motors and is the capstone project for Google's Advance Data Analytics Professional Certificate. The champion model for this analysis was a random forest with tuned hyper-parameters. The following metrics were used to evaluate the algorithm's success.

| Model Name	| F1 Score | Precision |	Recall | Accuracy |
| ----------  | -------- | --------- | ------- | -------- |
|Tuned Random Forest|	97.21%	| 98.47% |	95.98%	| 98.65% |

The random forest model determined the most relevant features for separating employees who are likely to leave from those who won't are satisfaction_level, time_spent_with_company, and hours_per_project. We note that the latter feature was engineered and that represents the employee's engagement to the company's goals.

Business Understanding
We clearly see that salary is not a leading factor for employee turnover rates, instead we see that employee activty, tenure and satisfaction are good indicators of longevity. Another important aspect of this project was to determine the best way to invest in employee training and resources without losing skilled workers. After conducting forms of hypothesis testing, we noticed that the Tech. Department has higher likelihoods to have employees who won't leave the company. So if we were to recommend a department for investing in training that would be this department.

Data Understanding
The Salifort Motors data was synthetically generated by Google for the purpose of this project. The data consisted of approximately 12k unique employees and 9 features per employee. The features included information on employee satisfaction, evaluation, salary, company history, department, and contributed projects. The bar chart below shows the proportion of employee leaving Salifort Motors
